.. include:: ../Includes.rst.txt
.. _faq:

Frequently Asked Questions
==========================

.. only:: html

	**Categories:**

	.. contents::
		:local:
		:depth: 1

.. _faq-webserver:

Web Server
----------

.. question

**Everything in this documentation is assuming that I am using Apache as web
server. Does Kerberos authentication works with Nginx as well?**

.. answer

*We do not have tested this configuration ourselves but you can read an article
explaining how to set up Kerberos on Nginx in Ubuntu 16.04:
`https://medium.com/@meeramarygeorge/setup-kerberos-on-nginx-in-ubuntu-16-04-408a5b95cdee`__.
Please be aware that this requires compiling Nginx from source in order to be
able to add a SPNEGO module to it
(`https://github.com/stnoonan/spnego-http-auth-nginx-module`__).*


.. _faq-users:

Users
-----

.. question

**Is it possible to have both users manually defined (thus authenticated with a
TYPO3 password) and users authenticated with LDAP?**

.. answer

*Yes. Both for frontend and backend authentication it is possible to manually
define users unrelated to your LDAP server(s). When a user is manually defined,
the record's column* ``tx_igldapssoauth_dn`` *is empty and thus, since the LDAP
authentication will fail, it will automatically fall back to the standard TYPO3
authentication service. This behaviour may be enabled/disabled globally for
backend and/or frontend within Extension Manager.*

-------

.. question

**I have a local user with the same username as a LDAP user but which has been
manually created in TYPO3. Which password will be taken into account?**

.. answer

*When you manually create a user in TYPO3, it is not related to LDAP. This local
user may authenticate with the password you set. However is the user matches a
LDAP user* **and the password provided** *results into a successful LDAP
authentication, the manually created user will be automatically linked to the
LDAP user.* **Afterwards, only the LDAP password will be valid**.

-------

.. question

**I would like to silently and automatically authenticate my users in frontend
(Single Sign On / SSO). Since Apache is configured to restrict access using**
:term:`Kerberos`, **no login form should be needed in my website. Is this
possible with this extension?**

.. answer

*Yes. You have to activate this option in Extension Manager and ensure you have
properly configured mod_ntlm or Kerberos with Apache (or any other supported web
server). This extension will look for a username in* ``$_SERVER['REMOTE_USER']``
*(without any domain part) to silently create the session in TYPO3.*

-------

.. question

**I would like to do SSO in backend just like I do in frontend. Is this possible
with this extension?**

.. answer

*Yes. This is possible since version 3.2.0. Please keep in mind though that
enabling SSO for the backend means it is then impossible for a user to log out.
And TYPO3 may behave differently if you show the frontend while having a backend
session active (e.g., frontend editing).*

-------

.. question

**How can I find the Bind DN of a given Active Directory account?**

.. answer

*It is not always obvious when opening the properties of a given user in Active
Directory to figure out the DN to be used. The trick is to open a command prompt
and use ``dsquery``. E.g. when looking for the DN of the "administrator"
account:*

.. code::

    > dsquery user -name administrator
    CN=Administrator,OU=Users,DC=example,DC=com

-------


.. _faq-groups:

Groups
------

.. question

**Can I import user groups automatically?**

.. answer

*Yes you can.*

-------

.. question

**May I manually tweak the name or configuration of imported user groups?**

.. answer

*Yes. To do so, you should enable the global option in Extension Manager
preventing the automatic synchronization of groups (may be configured separately
for backend and frontend). In order to import new groups manually, use the LDAP
/ SSO backend module. Once imported, you may change their name to fit your needs
and conventions.*

-------

.. question

**My server is providing a hierarchy of groups. Is it possible to automatically
mirror this structure in TYPO3?**

.. answer

*Yes. You should provide a be_groups and/or fe_groups mapping instruction for
the LDAP attribute holding the reference to the parent group. E.g.,* ::

	parentGroup = <memberof>

-------

.. question

**Which servers support the "memberOf" / "groupMembership" attribute?**

.. answer

*Windows 2000 and above Active Directory definitely supports this attribute.*

-------

.. question

**My infrastructure provides 2 LDAP servers, one containing group records, the
second containing only users but with "memberOf" attributes corresponding to
groups found on the other server. Is it possible to map those groups to the
users?**

.. answer

*Yes. In order to do that, you will need to manually import the LDAP user groups
into your TYPO3 website and then configure the global option in Extension
Manager that disables the synchronization of user groups. This way, only the
configured baseDN for groups will be compared with the groups assigned as
"memberOf" attributes, without actively retrieving corresponding group records
from the LDAP server.*

-------


.. _faq-security:

Security
--------

.. question

**Is the effective user's password ever stored in TYPO3?**

.. answer

*No. The password provided in the login form is sent directly to the LDAP server
and never stored in TYPO3. However, since TYPO3 requires a password to be set
for frontend and backend user records, this extension generates and saves a
random 16 byte password for the sole purpose of making TYPO3 happy.*

-------

.. question

**Can I encrypt my connection to the LDAP server?**

.. answer

*Yes. This extension is supporting SSL-encrypted connection to the LDAP server
as well as TLS-based connection.*

-------

.. question

**Which port number is my LDAP server listening on?**

.. answer

*It is not possible to answer without knowing your infrastructure but it is
worth to mention that*

- **389** *is the industry standard port for LDAP connections over TCP/IP, and*
- **636** *is the industry standard port for LDAP connections over SSL.*

-------
